Science And The Universe,  A brief tour

  
- **Astronomy** is the study of objects and matter outside  
the earth's atmosphere and of their physical and  
chemical properties (Merriam-Webster). Within this  
course, I’d like you to understand that it is humanity’s  
attempt to organize the history and evolution of the  
Universe, from the Big Bang to the emergence of life.  

-  Astronomy is an observational science – we have to  
observe nature, we cannot run experiments.  

-  **Science**, though often presented to the public as a  
dogma, is both a body of knowledge and a method by  
which we attempt to understand nature and how it  
behaves.


- Science evolves. For example, we used to think that  
the Earth was the center of the Universe. That made a  
lot of sense given the information that was available to  
the ancients.  

- New models or ideas are sometimes called  
hypotheses, they must be testable to be scientific, or  
have a pathway to testability. In astronomy, what we  
might do is wait for the event to happen, or for a better  
telescope to be built.

**Astronomy (Not Astrology)**  
“Astronomy is the science that studies everything outside of  
the earth's atmosphere, such as planets, stars, asteroids,  
galaxies; and the properties and relationships of those celestial  
bodies.”  (American Astronomical Society)  

Astrology is “the divination of the supposed influences of the  
stars and planets on human affairs and terrestrial events by  
their positions and aspects.” Not science. (Merriam-Webster Dictionary)